Hello and welcome to Python Bytes.
This is episode 231 recorded April 28th.
Is that right?
Yeah, 2021.
I'm Brian Okken.
I'm Michael Kennedy.
I'm Cecil Philip.
Yay.
Hey, welcome.
Cecil.
Hey, thanks for having me on.
It's always good to come back on this podcast.
This, you know, unbiasedly is probably one of my favorite podcasts to listen to,
to be honest with you.
Mine too.
- Yeah.
(laughing)
- Thanks so much.
We get to learn so much stuff by studying
and just getting ready for each week
and it's always fun to just see the new and exciting.
Developers, we love the shiny new things, right?
- Yeah.
- Absolutely.
Well, before we jump into the topic,
I thought maybe we could let Cecil
introduce himself real quick.
I know you've been on the show before,
but it's been a little while.
- Yeah, it has been a little while since I've been on.
But hi everyone, I'm Cecil Philip.
I'm a Cloud Advocate at Microsoft.
That pretty much just means I spend a lot of time in the community,
working with different companies and students,
and just really creating content around
how developer can start using our tools.
One of the things that I do,
Michael is showing you one of
the pages from our Channel 9 video site.
I helped run the On.NET show.
It's not Python, but it is.NET,
and we do talk about just a lot of different things in the ecosystem.
So about-
- You also do Python stuff on some live stream on Twitch
and so on, right?
Just not on the official .NET channel.
- Yeah, yeah, yeah.
So we do do, the live streaming stuff happens
on Twitch and YouTube.
And you could always go back and check out
like the recordings of those too, if you want.
- But really quickly, before we jump to Brian's item,
I do wanna point out on the screen
that's top level statements that C# has added,
which is like, let's be more like Python.
I just think that's kind of interesting thing, right?
I think with the last set of like in C# 9,
a lot of the things that came out of
the last language feature set,
everyone is just like, "This looks a lot like Python.
This looks a lot like Python."
Wait till .NET 6 and C# 10 come out,
then I'll have to see what you did.
>> You were going to use the def keyword and all that,
typing is optional. Got it.
>> I don't know. We'll see. We'll see what happens.
>> I might check out C# again if it gets close to Python.
- I mean, it's not a bad time to jump in.
- Yeah, yeah.
It's definitely one of the better languages out there.
I certainly think so.
All right, Brian, take us away.
What's your first item here?
Are you gonna tell us or else what?
- (laughs) Yeah, or else.
So I actually was intrigued by this
because this is, it's an article called the basic,
wait, what's the article called?
For else, a weird but useful feature in Python.
Plus there's a cute avocado stuffy.
But I'm not used to using else or break in my Python code.
I just don't do it that much.
Yes, hello, birds.
Interesting article about the else block.
What it does is if you've got a for loop
and there's no break inside of it,
well, then your else will get hit.
The only way to use else effectively is to maybe have
a break so that you at some times don't hit it.
It's still a little confusing to me.
I was reading more.
The article goes on about
talking about some examples where you'd want to do it.
It does explain, it explains it way better than I just did.
If you're interested about that, read the article.
But the explanation of why you would use it,
my favorite is if you're going to iterate to find an item.
You would normally maybe use
a found flag or something to say that you found it.
You don't need to with this.
Once you find the item,
you can break and then you'll hop out,
and the else block will only get run if you
did not find the item.
So that's really pretty much the use case
that I think is neat.
- Yeah, I agree with that one.
And I love the break out of these loops early,
you know, because we end up so often
with super indented code, right?
It's like, if this is true, and if this is true,
and if this is true, and you could put those
into a couple of breaks or continues in your loop,
and then, oh boy, it's nice and flat-ish.
- Yeah, the other, one of the other use cases
he brought up was using it with an exception.
So if you've got an exception,
try accept block within a for loop
and you kind of want to know outside
whether or not any exceptions were caught,
you can use the else block to find out if you've--
- Man, I can't get behind that.
Like I know that's the use case, try this else.
I can't get behind it.
It's just, it's too, it's too weird for me to think about.
I, I would, I just never use it
because it just seems a little unusual.
And I know I've talked with some folks on the internet.
They're like, oh, but this is a way to add
like a continuation to your try block
that you won't over catch errors.
And I'm, yeah, I don't know.
I hear you, but I, but this, this else one on the loop,
I could, I can see this as a, you know,
not too bad compared to found flag.
And then what I want to express before we leave this is,
if you're going to either put a,
I think both break or else, if that's in your code,
there should be a comment explaining what it does
because there's a lot of Python developers
that won't know what's going on.
So.
- Yeah. So what do you think?
- Yeah, I actually really like both of them,
like both the for else and the try else,
only because I think about how much code
would I have had to have written otherwise?
For me, it just makes those situations a little bit more succinct.
I completely understand what you're saying because a part of me
also on the other half is like, well,
I could just put the rest of the code inside the try block.
>> Yeah, exactly. Whatever that else is,
that just continue on. Exactly.
>> Yeah, my continuation happens in the same block of code.
I completely understand it from that perspective too.
I guess I'm 50-50 on it.
I kind of like it.
I kind of-- I'm like, well, we could do it another way.
So I don't know.
Yeah.
And just jumping back a tiny bit, Cecil,
Dean has a bit of foreshadowing for you in the live stream.
John posted in 2022, looking for PySharp developers
with 10 years of experience.
[LAUGHTER]
Wow.
And Rob is out there giving a shout out to Brian's birds.
I don't know how accurate that emoji is,
but it looks pretty legit.
That's pretty good.
Yeah, I got three here.
So nice.
All right.
I think I got the next one.
Right.
So let's talk.
You were done with this one, right?
And I didn't steal it from you.
Yeah.
And I'm going to, I'm going to step out and cover the birds.
So, okay.
Well, I'll tell you about the ORM while we're doing that.
So probably the two most popular ORMs we have out there are Django ORM.
And if you're, which really only makes sense if you're actually doing Django or
or SQLAlchemy.
And those are both really interesting,
but I wanna give a shout out to TortoiseORM.
I think these names are always interesting.
Like naming things is hard.
I always think of databases and database libraries
to be awesome if they're fast,
and less awesome if they're slow,
but Tortoise doesn't scream speedy.
But I think you should think of it more in the speedy side
because it's primarily an asyncio object relational mapper
inspired by Django.
So if you were like, I love what Django does,
but what I really want is an async version of that,
Tortoise ORM is a really good example.
And it uses the active record design pattern
instead of unit of work, which SQLAlchemy uses.
So it's pretty neat.
They have a bunch of performance stuff.
And I really like that they show the performance
against many different ORMs,
not just Django and SQLAlchemy,
but other ones like Pony and PeeWee
and a lot of different use cases.
You can get a sense, it's pretty fast, it's not raging fast,
but it's async, so that's a really, really good option there.
Super simple to use.
When you install it, you typically need to install
the underlying database driver that it's gonna use.
So if you're gonna use it with Postgres,
you install async-pg.
If you're gonna use it with MySQL,
you install aio-mysql and so on along with it.
But if you look at the code, it's super simple.
And if you're familiar with Django,
you go and create the fields as members of a class
equal to some descriptor like fields.inField
or field.textField, set them to have indexes and so on.
What's really nice is there's like really good modeling
of relationships.
So there's like fields.foreignKeyField,
fields.minitominifield,
and it talks about the relations and so on.
So yeah, this is a really nice ORM.
If you're looking for something async that is like Django,
give this a shot.
It's pretty popular.
It has almost 2000 GitHub stars, was updated two days ago.
So yeah, it seems like a nice, happy project.
- This looks pretty cool.
When you were showing that installation section just now,
so you still have to install like the async versions of,
I guess that particular database is driver.
So async MySQL, async Postgres and things of that nature.
So I'm guessing what this adds,
kind of like what you said is that,
that active record programming model, right?
Like, so if you want to write your code, that's well,
you know what I mean?
I can write it and then now I could just switch,
swap out the database driver and I could point
to a different database implementation if I wanted to.
- Yeah, exactly.
I think it does two things.
One is, you know, there's always like database dialects,
like how do you express parameters?
Question mark or at parameter name or whatever, right?
I think it handles that.
And then a lot of those drivers, they're async,
but they only work in raw SQL.
So select star from such and such and so on.
So this just gives you the ORM wrapper on top of it.
But I think it does this dependency thing
because otherwise it would have to install
every driver it supports.
That would be a hassle, right?
'Cause you only want one.
- Yeah, that would be a little messy.
- Yeah, why does it take so long to install?
Well, it's installing every database driver it can think of.
No, this is pretty cool, I like it.
Brian, what do you think?
- Actually, I think it's pretty great.
And I was actually starting to look at an ORM for a new project.
So I might check this out.
Yeah, I like it pretty well.
It's got some really simple ways to program it.
You can create one of these objects, and then you just await tournament.save,
if it's a tournament in this case, or it has a factory create method.
For queries, you go do some kind of query,
and then you just await a class.filter type of thing.
And it even does the join, so you don't end up
n plus one performance problems.
One thing I guess I would throw out there is
it seems to me like this is 100% async.
So if you're gonna use it,
you have to create an event loop and just run it in there.
And if your app is not very asynchy,
then it might be kind of a hassle to use.
I'm not totally sure about that.
It used to be that there were these wrappers
you could get that would take non-async libraries
and database libraries and stuff
and make them async by putting them on threads.
I can see a world where we get back to wrappers
that make them sync so they're easier to use
if you don't want to do async.
- Yeah, anyway.
- I know one thing for me that's always been
a little challenging is when you have
like these async database things,
like how do I test them?
You know what I mean?
I always find like testing,
at least when it comes to unit testing,
testing asyncio things is relatively non-trivial.
You know what I mean?
Like I have a thing that uses motor,
like so the MongoDB async library,
And I'm using FastAPI and FastAPI does this injection thing.
- Right.
- My code is clean 'cause I'm separating concerns
and doing all this thing.
Man, how do I test?
- Exactly.
Brian, do you got any advice on testing async things?
- Well, I don't right now,
but I think that'd be a great topic to explore
and try to get some people on the podcast.
- Yeah, yeah, I agree.
I think there's a PI test.
- If you ever write a part two of your book,
I'd love to see it.
Well, there's a second edition coming out, but it doesn't include async.
It hasn't published yet, has it?
There's still time for another chapter.
There you go.
Jumping back, I did see that Brett Cannon had an interesting comment about the else
clause.
One of the benefits is that it makes you look like a Python expert in code reviews when
and you suggest people use it.
So I think that's funny.
- Yeah, that is funny.
Yeah, a lot of thoughts here on the else clause.
I do think it's one of these things.
It's a little unusual.
Like a lot of languages have like,
oh, we all have the while loop.
We all have the for loop.
We all have statements.
They all look like this.
And this is kind of a little bit different.
So it's kind of interesting.
All right, cool.
Cecil, you're up next, right?
- Yeah, I am.
I ran into this post about Faster Python with Go Shared Objects,
which I thought was a really interesting read.
Mainly for me, I'm really into language interop.
The fast part is cool when I get it.
Fast is always a relative thing that we could consider,
what do we really consider to be fast or not?
But it's always interesting for me to see how we can
take one language and another and plug them together.
because I'm a big believer in let the thing do what it's best at.
For instance, Python is really good at doing certain things,
let Python do that, or Go is really good at doing certain things,
let Go do that, but now how do we plug these worlds together?
This arrow goes through talking about how within Go,
you can create these things called shared libraries.
I believe what it does is that it outputs a .so file or a .dll file.
>> Yeah.
Based on that in Python, you could use something like C types.
This article actually even references something called CFFI.
I've never heard about CFFI.
I don't know if you all have spoken about it before.
>> Yeah, it's a more modern interop layer between C libraries.
>> Yeah, I think they mentioned it.
>> Yeah, right there.
>> Yeah. It mentions using things like CFFI, for instance,
to be able to load some of these files and do interop,
which I think is actually pretty cool.
It does also talk about some of the pros and cons,
which I think are very important to discuss.
For instance, this says, well,
it's really good if you're just passing around primitive types.
But now when you want to pass around more complex types
like dictionaries and classes and things of that nature,
then it becomes a little bit more tricky to do.
But again, just in terms of,
hey, I have this thing that I want to pass on to Go.
Maybe Go runs it in the background or runs
this microservice thing that does Docker and Kubernetes
or whatever the case is.
We could leverage both ecosystems to, again,
have them do what they're good at
and just plug them together.
So I think this is a pretty cool read.
I'd love to hear what folks think about it
after they read through it.
- Yeah, I think it looks really interesting.
One of the powers of Python is this interoperability,
mostly around C, but also other things,
like weird things like Fortran and so on.
People say, "Oh, well, doing math with Python
is super slow relative to C++ or whatever.
And yet data science is so popular where it's almost all math, right?
How do you square these two things? How do you make them work?
And it's because a lot of that gets pushed down
into some more native layer, like a C layer.
You just hand off the data and then zip it.
The real work happens there.
And this seems like another really cool way to do that, right?
Something that works really well in Go,
write a package, wrap up the Go bits, put them in a wheel,
pip install them, and people don't have to know.
It's also not just what the language can do best,
it's what the developers can do best.
And if you've got somebody that's really good at Go
working on part of the problem,
being able to connect them together is a good idea.
I think that we're far away from the time
where people just had one language that they knew anyway.
And I don't know if we ever were there, but definitely, you know, when early in my career, there were some C++ developers that that's all they knew a little, a little shell scripting, but I don't find that anymore. And I think most Python developers know some other language as well.
- Yeah, like CSS, they typically program in CSS.
No, that's just the bad, that's what the bad surveys ask.
No, but you're right.
And it's also not just about knowing the language,
it's about, well, we've spent two years
building this other library and it works.
Can we just use that over here?
I like this interop for just reuse
is really powerful as well.
- Yeah, definitely.
- Yeah, I was found when I was growing up,
when I went through college,
my professors always told me
Any good programmer knows three or four different languages.
That's what they kept drilling into us.
It's funny, we always talked about learning different languages,
but we never ever spoke about putting them together.
Kind of like what you were saying,
I feel like that's where we are.
No one knows one language.
No one that works in a company in
a really productive ecosystem does one thing.
You probably know some JavaScript and some Python
and some Go and Rust and SQL.
like there's stuff in there.
But how do we put that stuff together
in a very clean and like maintainable way?
- Yeah, another thing, you know,
thinking back to the times when we were all in college,
so much of what we did was like really low level,
like, oh, I need to load this file.
So I got to write the binary bits to parse this file, right?
It was like super low level and it took a long time.
And these days it's more about Lego blocks,
get this thing, that thing, click them together
and make that piece go over there, right?
And this whole interop for that is also,
you know, makes sense in that world.
- Yeah.
Well, we have some,
you have some cool, I want to plug your stuff.
So we don't have a sponsor.
- Okay.
- So we'll plug your entry.
- Yeah, okay, so yeah.
Thanks, man.
I appreciate it.
Yeah, well, let me, I'll be specific about something.
Something that I think if you dug
through the course catalog,
there's a little coming soon graphic,
but people probably don't know is
we're about to release a course on Dask.
So Dask is a way to do like pandas type stuff.
But if it needs to load 10 terabytes of data
and it won't fit even on your hard drive,
or you wanna run it across 16 cores on your machine,
across 10 machines, you just write pandas code,
but you point it somewhere else
and it just parallelizes that beautifully
with this cool little dashboard.
So anyway, there's a free course coming on Dask
that people will be able to take really, really soon.
That'd be fun.
- No, it's good.
I think everybody should check out your course catalog.
And one of the best things that happened
to the Python community was when you quit
your full-time job and started working on this full-time.
- Thanks, a short four or five years ago.
It's awesome, it's crazy it's been so long.
- I definitely concur with that.
I'm curious about DAS too,
'cause I remember you all speaking about it
in a previous podcast and I always wondered,
oh wow, is this only for pandas
or can I use Dask to just run remote Python
anywhere I want?
- I think you can actually,
I do think you can make it run remote Python.
The simple use case is sort of import something different
that looks like pandas and use it, you know?
But I think there's a way,
there's like a lower level set of libraries
that do that orchestration.
You probably could use,
I'm trying to remember a mixture that's the right one,
but I think that's what Matthew Rockland
pointed out when we were talking about it.
So yeah, quite cool.
Yeah, that would make for me makes Python really interesting from a distributed systems perspective.
Yeah, I mean, we think about like containers and multiple VM's and even just talking across boundaries of networks, right?
Yeah.
Yeah, and just being able to import my library and run it. You know what I mean?
Yeah, absolutely.
Super cool. Alright, Brian, you got the next one?
Yeah. So speaking of learning to code,
As you go on with your learning to code,
there's tutorials and stuff,
but then you want to get into really finding out how things,
people are really solving problems all over the place.
A great discussion around that is to,
and good recommendations is to just go read some code.
You need to read a lot of code.
There's problems with that though.
This is an interesting article I'm going to link to.
Learning to read code, Python,
standard library design decisions explained for advanced beginners.
That's an interesting term, advanced beginners.
There's an interesting discussion around this.
The standard library is there,
so that's a great thing to go look at.
It's available and all of it's there,
so you can read all of it.
But there's some interesting caveats,
and both good and bad.
There's pros and cons.
One of the pros is all the peps are around,
so you can read the design decisions of
why things are the way they are,
and some of the history and what problem they're trying to solve.
That's actually an incredible benefit because
I don't even get that with internal code often with a company.
It's often just the code that was left to me that I have to maintain.
So this is kind of neat.
And usually it was done just enough to work and then we're done with it.
Yeah.
And Python gets to improve on itself, which is nice.
The downside is there's a lot of it and a lot of it's really old.
So there's some code in there from 10 to 20 years ago,
and what's Pythonic now might not have been Pythonic then.
So maybe not best practices.
I don't know this firsthand,
but this is a comment from the article.
So I think that's fair.
Also, you don't really want to learn.
This isn't necessarily from the Python Center library,
but just picking some thing that you use on GitHub,
it could be incredibly useful.
It doesn't mean that it's coded well though,
so it might not be a good example for coding.
The author has three or four different standard libraries
that he recommends, which is pretty interesting.
The statistics module, he says the code is simple,
and it's fairly well-documented.
- And the PEP describes-- - I think it's also pretty new,
which is kind of a-- - Oh, really?
- I think, I'm not sure when the statistics for that,
but it was added, it didn't come originally,
and it's been added after a while.
- But there's other things around
that people use statistics for, use for statistics.
So there's, the PEP apparently talks about design decisions
about not trying to re-implement NumPy
or something like that within the standard library,
but just have basic statistics.
3.4, by the way, is when statistics showed up.
Oh, yeah.
So it's not that old, right?
And actually, the next two are fairly recent as well.
Pathlib is recommended because it's extremely well documented.
And it's a good object-oriented example.
There's not a lot of object-oriented examples out there in Python
because a lot of people don't use it.
So that's good.
Also, a nice comparative study because we already had OSPath,
so you can look at how OSPath solved it versus Pathlib
solving the same problem. That's kind of neat.
Data classes is apparently very well documented.
And I'm not sure what else I was going to say
because I wrote down it's a good example of data classes.
That doesn't make sense, but...
It may be the very best example of data classes implementation.
>> Yeah.
>> Or the only.
>> Then GraphLib, which says it's a bonus,
but it's interesting because it does one thing.
It's an implementation of a topological sort algorithm,
which I'm not exactly 100 percent sure what that is,
but it's a narrow problem.
There's no PEP, but apparently there's
an issue that the article links to with a long thread discretion.
The interesting thing about this isn't
the discussion about how it should be implemented,
it's the discussion of what the API should look like.
So how it should be used from a user perspective.
That actually seems fascinating to me
because I think we need to talk about that more.
People, how designing APIs and coming to terms with that
is almost more important than what the code looks like.
Because you have to live with the API,
you can change the code later if you need to.
- Yeah, that's a good point.
'Cause you can refactor internally,
but yeah, the API you're stuck with,
unless you're like one of the packages I use
for security on the website today,
that just completely changed a bunch of the module names
and sub modules and move classes around.
And then my website in dev, not in production,
wouldn't start after I updated it.
I'm like, well, I don't understand,
shouldn't there be at least a deprecation warning
for a little bit or something?
Nope. - Yeah.
- Oh, well.
So what do you think?
>> I'm sorry. I was going to say,
one of the things I really like about articles like this is,
we often talk about the beginner path,
how do I get started with a thing?
But after we've brought all these beginners together,
how do I take you from beginner plus plus?
What is the next step look like?
You always hear folks talk about just you got to read code,
like go to GitHub and click
browse and just dig around projects that you're interested in
and things you want to learn about and just
try and understand how it works.
If you want to understand how Flask works,
if you want to see how folks use different things in
FastAPI or Django or even Tortoise
that Michael was showing a little while ago.
It's open source and that's the beauty about it.
You could just go on GitHub and just read the code.
Then change it on your machine and see what it does.
See, does it get faster?
Is it slower? Is it more or less readable?
Do you understand it a little better?
Did the test make sense?
Brian can tell you about writing
good tests for all these different packages and stuff.
But I think we need to do more of this,
and we as an industry,
because I feel like we're drowning
in how to get started content now at this level.
You know what I mean? Let's go one step above that now and start to
talk about what is the step 2,
3, 4 look like between junior and senior.
Yeah, there's definitely that cliff.
Brian, you got a learning curve here to back this up?
Oh, yeah, I think you muted Brian.
Yeah, I saw this interesting graphic and I kind of related to it really well.
In production, I'm not sure about the early parts of the learning curve.
But the end part is welcome to production programming,
programming where there's strange mission critical code left behind by the last developer.
And I mean, actually, this is, you know, funny, but also it's true. In, you know, production code in a
company, you often have to support code that you don't know what the decisions are. You don't,
it's just it's working, but you're not sure why it's working. And yeah, there's some strange stuff.
- Yeah, it can definitely get weird in that stage.
But Cecil, I agree that going from like,
oh, I learned the language so I can actually do stuff.
That there's a huge gap right there.
Dean out in the live stream says,
I wonder if some design decisions that were best
in the '90s are less optimal today.
I feel like in the '90s, it was all about
object-orienting all the things.
And then there was like a push,
like, you know, maybe that's not the best way
to just develop everything, like maybe a little bit mixed,
a little bit of composition and so on.
That's fun. And then John says,
"Coming from a number of other languages,
when I first started using Python,
I took a conscious effort to seek out learning
the idiomatic Python way of doing things."
I think that's really important,
because it's so easy to just get it to work
and then leave it there.
You're like, "No one would ever do this."
You would just create a number and a fake for loop
that increments that.
And it goes the other way, too.
So like Cecil mentioned, real developers,
if you work a professional developer,
is going to know several languages.
But it's not just knowing three languages
and knowing how to code C in three different languages.
It's about learning the idiomatic way to do Python.
It's learning how to do C# the way other C# developers do it.
It's not just about trying to translate your own language
into three languages or something.
- And it's even simple stuff like variable naming
and function naming, right?
In Java, you start with a lowercase letter
then have camel case, in Python it's all lowercase.
C#, I mean, it's just like this person clearly
is not of this ecosystem.
Like you can just tell straight away
just by weird things like naming
that are so easy to change.
- Yeah.
- All right.
- That's one of the things you see a lot when people do
those auto-generated libraries.
I know some folks are familiar with things like
OpenAPI and Autoress and things of that nature.
Like you point a thing at your API definition,
it just generates stuff.
But what if the casing doesn't match?
If I generate a Java library
and a JavaScript library and a Python library,
but the casing is going to be
different across all those idiomatically.
But now these code-generated things have to take
that is a consideration as they're building up these libraries.
Your classes like Pydantic that automatically map them over
now have to look like Java classes or whatever.
I did see in Pydantic that you can now have an alias.
So it's like this is what it looks like in JavaScript,
but it has this other proper name,
like this Python name in Python, which I think is kind of cool.
All right, let's talk about something that's really fun and visual.
So there's this thing called
Gradio, something.
I'm messing up the pronunciation, I'm sure.
This comes to us from David Smith,
so thanks for sending that over.
And this is a really cool way to add simple,
interactive UIs to your machine learning scripts.
So it says, "Generate an easy to use UI
"for your ML model function or API
"with only a few lines of code
"and integrate it directly into your Python notebook
"or share a link with anyone."
So here, like all beautiful user interface things,
that actually has not just graphics,
but interactive graphics.
So you might import Gradio
and then write the code to implement it
and then just give it the function that it wants to use
and say the input is a sketch pad
and the output is a label run
and that's the implementation.
So here's a machine learning model
that allows me to draw in ink
and then tell me what letter it is.
So if I did like this,
I should tell you, oh, I think that's a seven.
That's not a seven.
Let's see, what about a one?
You think that's a four?
This model is not very good.
But that's not the point, right?
That should be a five.
I'm gonna draw, I'm gonna do a zero.
There we go, yes, I nailed it with a zero.
Two, yeah, two knows two, I don't know.
The point is not that the model's accurate,
but this is a really cool UI
that you can build in a couple of lines of code, right?
- I think that's super.
- Yeah, this is pretty nice.
- Yeah, let's see what other examples they got in here.
Question and answer with a paragraph.
So here's the text that the source text is,
Victoria has written a constitution enacted in 1975,
et cetera, et cetera.
And then you could ask the model the question,
when did Victoria enact its constitution?
Holy moly, wait for it.
1975, like that is insane, right?
And you can cool this, you can build this cool UI here,
a face segmentation.
I'm not gonna do my webcam,
it's gonna break stuff for the live stream.
Yeah, all sorts of things though,
like little sliders and whatnot.
Do we need social distancing?
Yes, there we go.
So pretty neat way to really simply add UIs
and integrate them both onto websites
and into Jupyter Notebooks.
- Nice, I like it.
- I like it.
- I love too that it's just running in the browser too.
- I know.
- That's awesome.
- Yeah, I mean, that's proper JavaScript work
to be putting on like a little sketch pad
and then taking that image and sending it back up.
Dean is helping us with the naming.
So ML models usually use gradients.
So called grade in slang terms, I guess, grade IO.
Yeah, that sounds good.
Cool, thanks.
All right, so you're gonna take us out of here
last one you got? Yeah, sure. Let's take a look.
Alright, so my screen should be up now. So there's this movie
that's coming out later this summer. 2021 called Space Jam. I
don't know if you ever heard about Space Jam. But I heard
about it. I don't really I don't know enough. What's that? I only
heard of it. I haven't seen it. Yeah, I mean, you know, I know
if anyone that's born born after like the year 2000, probably
>> I'm going to go ahead and start.
>> Okay.
and you can use that to start predicting the outcomes of
games and player performance and all this cool stuff.
But it uses Python,
it uses Pandas, uses VS Code.
There is some JavaScript in there and there's some NBA data in there,
there's some basketball data in there.
You use and explore and play around with.
I think this is really cool.
Again, going back to the conversation we had before about,
okay, I know some Python,
how do I do some cool stuff with it?
What's the next step?
I thought this was a great example of us showing,
"Hey, let me take something that I actually care about."
Maybe some of you care about basketball,
maybe some of you don't. But whether it's sports or racing,
or maybe you like to listen to podcasts,
how can I take podcast data and run
some machine learning and different things around it?
I think these are all really cool projects for you to think about.
But this one specifically is about using basketball stats,
inspired by Space Jam and using Python and Pandas,
and just creating some really cool projects out of it.
So I thought this was cool.
Hopefully, folks check it out and let us know what you think.
>> So this is a free learning thing that people can go check out, right?
>> Yeah, this is 100 percent free.
Excuse me. It's 100 percent free.
Free as in I don't need your address and information.
>> It's just a credit card. You can cancel anytime. It's totally free.
>> One thing I would tell you,
if you do decide to create an account,
so I have an account here.
You'll notice you'll get points, you get XP points.
This one is worth 4,000 XP.
If I get that, hopefully I'll bump up and I'll be out of line.
>> You're going to go to level nine if you finish this one.
>> Yeah. I want to make sure I
get to make some time to go through this learning path.
But if you do want to sign up,
it's a good way to keep score,
you get badges and all kinds of stuff.
We do have other Python related courses in here too.
We just released a intro to Django on here.
>> That's nice.
>> As well, if folks are interested in that.
>> Did you guys do something with Dr. Becky
around like NASA or something or is that?
>> Yeah. We do have one that's around the moon landing.
Then also, if you remember that Netflix movie,
I think it's called Over the Moon or something like that.
There's also a Learn module,
I believe that's also associated with
that movie that we partner with Netflix on.
- That was super cool. - So that was awesome.
- Nice, what I really like about this is
when people are trying to get into programming,
especially taking that next step of like,
"Okay, I've learned what a loop is,"
it's so hard to know,
"What can I build?"
Because you have these, like, "Well, I'd love to build a game."
Like, well, building a game takes a team of people
in a year. Like, that's not a good next step.
It's just like knowing what the next thing
to build that's a little more complicated
that you're really actually interested in and you want to build.
Like, this is the type of thing,
you know, if you had a, like a coding club at a high school,
maybe COVID times is not the best for this,
but you could say, let's build an app that will do like
statistics for our basketball team
and like all sorts of interesting things.
Like you could build really neat stuff and put it together
in ways I think people will care about.
- Yeah, exactly.
And I'm just, like I said, just in general,
I think the best way for you to go from beginner
to whatever that next level is,
is just find something that you really care about
and see if you can attach technology to it.
I care about basketball.
I've been watching basketball for years.
When I heard Space Jam and Python,
I'm like, "Oh, that's easy."
>> Yes.
>> Yes, that's something that I care about.
That's something I want to do.
>> That's awesome.
>> Like we mentioned before, we have ones on NASA,
but maybe you're into some other stuff.
Maybe you're into agriculture and flowers and plants.
Maybe you want to do something that
categorizes that type of stuff.
Maybe you're into cars,
maybe you like racing or
you know, some other activity, you know, find a way that you can integrate what you're doing with,
um, you know, in your real world life with what you're doing in your computer life, right?
And see if we can put those together.
I think that'd be awesome.
Iot stuff to do with agriculture.
Yeah, for sure.
I think so too.
you know, I've heard about like a lot of different, projects that, you know, use IOT,
you know, particularly outside of the United States to do things like detecting diseases and,
letting them know when's the right time to manage crops,
and getting information from weather APIs,
and using it inside of
their IoT devices and stuff like that to help make decisions,
which I think is really cool.
>> You could look at the crops and say, "How wet is this?
Could it hold out 12 more hours because I
see it's going to rain in 12 hours,
so let's not waste the water now, save some money."
>> Yeah, exactly. Little micro-optimizations like that,
that'll probably one, save you a lot of money and resources
and also make sure that you can control your environment.
Yeah, I think those are all really cool use cases
that we should definitely encourage more folks
to get involved in.
- Yeah, so I don't know if we should go down it,
but Dean is calling Jordan the goat.
I don't know what's going on here.
- I agree with him 100%.
I would defend that any day.
It goes Jordan, Colby, LeBron.
That's how it goes in my head.
- Awesome.
All right, well, that's all of our main items.
Brian, do you have anything extra
you wanna give a shout out to?
- No, but I just wanted to say,
I thought it was a trick question when you said,
does, do you know what Space Jam is?
I mean, I thought everybody knew what Space Jam was.
I had to look it up.
I didn't realize it came out in '96.
So it's been a while.
So.
- Absolutely.
- Yeah, that's what I said.
If you're born after 2000, like you're not,
what Space Jam is.
- If you've got good parents, you'll know,
'cause they would have shown you.
(laughing)
- That sometimes works.
- I actually made my son watch it a couple weeks ago.
- Yeah, did he enjoy it?
- Yeah, he loved it.
Now, one day I came home, he's just like,
"Daddy, what are we gonna watch tonight?"
I'm like, "I don't know, what do you wanna watch?"
"Let's watch Space Jam."
I'm like, "Yes, I'm a good father."
- Yes.
- He's done it.
- My wife and I tried to have our daughters
watch all the James Bond 007 stuff.
And I said, "Well, the natural way would be
"to start at the very first one with Sean Connery
"and make your way up to Daniel Craig."
today. They watched like 10 minutes like this is so fake. I can't watch this. Like, all right, well,
different generation, different generation. Yeah. All right. So, let's see. It's also got
anything you want to give a quick shout out to that didn't land in the main topics.
I feel like I should have prepared for this. Yeah, no, I don't be bothered. Are you still doing
the Twitch streams, Brian? Yeah, we're still doing this. Other Brian, Brian Clark.
My co-host Brian had taken some time off because Brian had a baby.
So congratulations to Brian and his family.
>> Congratulations.
>> But he will be back.
Well, he is back, but we'll be live-streaming again starting next week.
Now that he's back and settled and stuff like that.
But yeah, we do a weekly live stream on Twitch.
You can go to twitch.tv/MicrosoftDeveloper.
It's every Wednesday at 1.30 PM Eastern Standard Time.
>> We talk all things Python.
We do different projects.
I believe both of you gentlemen have been on.
We've had Brian come on to talk about
testing and solve some problems that I was having.
Michael, you came on too, which was great.
Yeah, we try and take a beginner's perspective.
>> Yeah.
>> My Brian and Brian.
>> Very exploratory.
>> But my co-host Brian and myself,
we try to take it from the perspective of,
"Okay, well, he knows JavaScript, I know C#.
Let's come together and play around with Python
and show all the mistakes and the typos
and the things that happen that we don't always see
on video and live streams and show people like,
"Well, anyone can really just take the time to learn.
You just gotta put in the effort."
- Yeah, awesome.
Yeah, people should definitely check that out.
That's well done.
So before I give my quick one item that I wanna share,
Dean says, "PyCon Israel is next week,
"May 2nd and 3rd, it's free and virtual,
"so all are welcome."
Yeah, thanks for that real-time update.
And then, Brian, people are loving our,
what you call it, the absolute privacy updates to the site.
Check this out, 154 people liked some random update
about removing analytics from the website.
- I think that's great.
- Yeah, so now if you go to like pythonbytes.fm
in Firefox and you look, there's a perfect security shield,
perfect privacy shield, and we happen to be live streaming.
- So did you just remove Google Analytics from it?
- We were using GetClicky, which is like a more real time,
but I think Google Analytics basically the same.
The thing I liked about GetClicky is it was a paid service
that didn't share your data with advertisers.
So it was better, at least in that regard,
but all the ad blockers and everything
already degrading the data so badly that it was kind of like,
well, it's maybe half of that population.
I don't know that we get information about it,
so let's just take it out.
>> Right. >> Yeah.
>> Okay. Got it, got it, got it.
>> All right, I wish we would have had this joke last week, maybe two weeks ago,
but I've got a good joke for us.
There was that giant evergreen shipping container thing that clogged up the canals
at the Suez Canal, cost like $400 million an hour,
lost commerce with the Middle East and Europe, right?
That was bad.
So there's this great joke here
about Linux containers and Kubernetes.
So it's got the evergreen ship stuck sideways
and like another shipping container clearly stopped
like this is blocked, we can't make it through.
And then the title is Linux containers and Kubernetes for beginners.
Like containers.
Yeah, that'll fix it.
That's hilarious.
By the way, did you ever get that thing out?
It got out like a week ago.
I think, yeah.
Eventually they had to dig the sand out underneath it until it
could float again, basically.
Oh my gosh.
That's ridiculous.
And then.
So, so are you a fan of the, Oh really?
Covers.
I am.
Yeah.
So we've got the, Oh really?
instead of O'Reilly.
Kubernetes for beginners, what could go wrong?
DevOops.
- Nice, I like it.
- DevOops.
- But I love the evergreen containership.
Containers, that'll fix it.
All right, Brian, is that it?
- Yeah.
- That a show?
Put a wrap on it?
- Nice bow, yeah.
Good joke.
Good guest.
- Yeah.
Great guest, Cecil.
Super to catch up with you.
Thank you for being on the show again.
- Thanks everybody for coming.
- Thank you both for having me come on, man.
Again, it's always a fun time.
I'm trying to break the record.
I wanna know who your most frequent guest is
and whatever that is, I wanna break the record.
- Oh, I'm gonna get one of those great I/O type things
and point it at our site and then I'll ask it.
- Yeah. (laughs)
- No, I think actually probably you're near the top.
I have to do some counting.
We'll have to see, but yeah, for sure.
- Yeah, let me know.
I gotta make sure I keep, I gotta keep standards high.
- That's right.
out there in the live stream if he's still there. He's definitely one he's one of the contenders as
well so I'll let you know. Okay yeah cool well bye everybody. Bye everyone take care. See ya.